ada-project-docs/optional-enhancements.md, before:

# Optional Enhancements

## Goal

Optional enhancements are meant to spark our imagination! They can give us extra ideas for how to extend this project. Optional enhancements should never compromise the project requirements, unless there are special circumstances.

## Optional Means Optional

It is more important and more valuable to do good work with the requirements, and to solidify your learning. Please do not work on optional enhancements before feeling confident in the project requirements.

## Prompts

### Edge Cases

Many waves are missing many edge case considerations. Consider different edge cases in each wave, make decisions for what should happen, and then implement it!

As inspiration, here are some beginning edge cases to consider:

What should happen if...

- when creating a task, the value of `completed_at` is a string that is not a datetime?
- when updating a task, the value of `completed_at` is a string that is not a datetime?
- when getting all tasks, and using query params, the value of `sort` is not "desc" or "asc"?

For each of these, consider what the HTTP response should be.

How would you write tests for it? How would you implement it?

Your decisions should not break the other tests.

### Re-organize Routes

Consider refactoring how endpoints are written in the `routes.py` file.

Here are some ideas to start:

- Instead of having `if/elif` blocks to handle many HTTP methods in one route method, separate them into different route methods

### Model Instance Methods

We can define instance methods in our model classes.

Consider places in your code that deal with one model at a time. Is there any repeated logic or behavior?

Here are some ideas to start:

- Create an instance method in `Task` named `to_json()`
    - Converts a `Task` instance into JSON
    - Returns a Python dictionary in the shape of the JSON our API returns in the `GET` `/tasks` route
- Create a class method in `Task` named `from_json()`
    - Converts JSON into a new instance of `Task`
    - Takes in a dictionary in the shape of the JSON our API receives in the create and update routes
    - Returns an instance of `Task` 

### Use List Comprehensions

Use list comprehensions in your `routes.py` logic.

### Route Helper Methods

If you have not already refactored your `routes.py` to use helper methods, do so now!

Consider code with complex or repetitive logic, and refactor it into helper methods. Watch your `routes.py` file become cleaner and more readable!

### More Query Params

Create the tests and implementation so that the user may

- filter tasks by title
- sort tasks by id
- sort goals by title

Commit message:

C22 task-list-api updates (#67)
* Remove incorrect Wave_1 requirement from wave_01.md. Change primary keys for Task and Goal to be uid=501(kelseysteven) gid=20(staff) groups=20(staff),12(everyone),61(localaccounts),79(_appserverusr),80(admin),81(_appserveradm),98(_lpadmin),701(com.apple.sharepoint.group.1),33(_appstore),100(_lpoperator),204(_developer),250(_analyticsusers),395(com.apple.access_ftp),398(com.apple.access_screensharing),399(com.apple.access_ssh),400(com.apple.access_remote_ae). Update project scaffold for flask changes. Update wave 1-5 docs for flask changes (more remain to update)

* Add info and screenshots to deployment doc about choosing the runtime

* Update requirements.txt

* Add requests package for sending Slack notification

* Update to_json to to_dict following what we use in class

* Remove mention of combined routes file

* Update ada-project-docs/optional-enhancements.md

* Update screenshots for setting language in Render

* Add red circle in first image showing where Language field is

* Updates for PR review to fix typos & be consistent with how we reference waves

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ashley Yang <ashley@adadevelopersacademy.org>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ashley Yang <ashley@adadevelopersacademy.org>

ada-project-docs/optional-enhancements.md, after:

# Optional Enhancements

## Goal

Optional enhancements are meant to spark our imagination! They can give us extra ideas for how to extend this project. Optional enhancements should never compromise the project requirements, unless there are special circumstances.

## Optional Means Optional

It is more important and more valuable to do good work with the requirements, and to solidify your learning. Please do not work on optional enhancements before feeling confident in the project requirements.

## Prompts

### Edge Cases

Many waves are missing many edge case considerations. Consider different edge cases in each wave, make decisions for what should happen, and then implement it!

As inspiration, here are some beginning edge cases to consider:

What should happen if...

- when creating a task, the value of `completed_at` is a string that is not a datetime?
- when updating a task, the value of `completed_at` is a string that is not a datetime?
- when getting all tasks, and using query params, the value of `sort` is not "desc" or "asc"?

For each of these, consider what the HTTP response should be.

How would you write tests for it? How would you implement it?

Your decisions should not break the other tests.

### Model Instance Methods

We can define instance methods in our model classes.

Consider places in your code that deal with one model at a time. Is there any repeated logic or behavior?

Here are some ideas to start:

- Create an instance method in `Task` named `to_dict()`
    - Converts a `Task` instance into JSON
    - Returns a Python dictionary in the shape of the JSON our API returns in the `GET` `/tasks` route
- Create a class method in `Task` named `from_json()`
    - Converts JSON into a new instance of `Task`
    - Takes in a dictionary in the shape of the JSON our API receives in the create and update routes
    - Returns an instance of `Task` 

### Use List Comprehensions

Use list comprehensions in your route functions where applicable.

### Route Helper Methods

If you have not already refactored your route files to use helper methods, do so now!

Consider code with complex or repetitive logic, and refactor it into helper methods. Watch your route files become cleaner and more readable!

### More Query Params

Create the tests and implementation so that the user may

- filter tasks by title
- sort tasks by id
- sort goals by title
