ada-project-docs/wave_01.md, before:

# Wave 1: CRUD for One Model

## Goal

Our task list API should be able to work with an entity called `Task`.

Tasks are entities that describe a task a user wants to complete. They contain a:

- title to name the task
- description to hold details about the task
- an optional datetime that the task is completed on

Our goal for this wave is to be able to create, read, update, and delete different tasks.

# Requirements

## Task Model

There should be a `Task` model that lives in `app/models/task.py`.

Tasks should contain these attributes. Feel free to change the name of the `task_id` column if you would like. **The tests require the remaining columns to be named exactly** as `title`, `description`, and `completed_at`.

- `task_id`: a primary key for each task
- `title`: text to name the task
- `description`: text to describe the task
- `completed_at`: a datetime that has the date that a task is completed on. **Can be _nullable_,** and contain a null value. A task with a `null` value for `completed_at` has not been completed.

### Tips

- SQLAlchemy's column type for text is `db.String`. The column type for datetime is `db.DateTime`.
- SQLAlchemy supports _nullable_ columns with specific syntax.
- Don't forget to run:
  - `flask db init` once during setup
  - `flask db migrate` every time there's a change in models, in order to generate migrations
  - `flask db upgrade` to run all generated migrations
- We can assume that the value of each task's `completed_at` attribute will be `None`, until wave 3. (Read below for examples)
- We can assume that the API will designate `is_complete` as `false`, until wave 3. (Read below for examples)

## CRUD for Tasks

The following are required routes for wave 1. Feel free to implement the routes in any order within this wave.

### Tips

- Pay attention to the exact shape of the expected JSON. Double-check nested data structures and the names of the keys for any mispellings.
- Use the tests in `tests/test_wave_01.py` to guide your implementation.
- You may feel that there are missing tests and missing edge cases considered in this wave. This is intentional.
  - You have fulfilled wave 1 requirements if all of the wave 1 tests pass.
  - You are free to add additional features, as long as the wave 1 tests still pass. However, we recommend that you consider the future waves, first.
- Some tests use a fixture named `one_task` that is defined in `tests/conftest.py`. This fixture saves a specific task to the test database.

### Create a Task: Valid Task With `null` `completed_at`

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/tasks` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "title": "A Brand New Task",
  "description": "Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`201 CREATED`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "A Brand New Task",
    "description": "Test Description",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

so that I know I successfully created a Task that is saved in the database.

### Get Tasks: Getting Saved Tasks

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Task Title 1",
    "description": "Example Task Description 1",
    "is_complete": false
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "title": "Example Task Title 2",
    "description": "Example Task Description 2",
    "is_complete": false
  }
]
```

### Get Tasks: No Saved Tasks

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks` when there are zero saved tasks and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[]
```

### Get One Task: One Saved Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Task Title 1",
    "description": "Example Task Description 1",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

### Get One Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Update Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Task Title",
  "description": "Updated Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Updated Task Title",
    "description": "Updated Test Description",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

### Update Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Task Title",
  "description": "Updated Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body

### Delete Task: Deleting a Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "details": "Task 1 \"Go on my daily walk 🏞\" successfully deleted"
}
```

### Delete Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Create a Task: Invalid Task With Missing Data

#### Missing `title`

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/tasks` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "description": "Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

so that I know I did not create a Task that is saved in the database.

#### Missing `description`

If the HTTP request is missing `description`, we should also get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

#### Missing `completed_at`

If the HTTP request is missing `completed_at`, we should also get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

Commit message:

Give clarity about the unordered nature of JSON objects

ada-project-docs/wave_01.md, after:

# Wave 1: CRUD for One Model

## Goal

Our task list API should be able to work with an entity called `Task`.

Tasks are entities that describe a task a user wants to complete. They contain a:

- title to name the task
- description to hold details about the task
- an optional datetime that the task is completed on

Our goal for this wave is to be able to create, read, update, and delete different tasks.

# Requirements

## Task Model

There should be a `Task` model that lives in `app/models/task.py`.

Tasks should contain these attributes. Feel free to change the name of the `task_id` column if you would like. **The tests require the remaining columns to be named exactly** as `title`, `description`, and `completed_at`.

- `task_id`: a primary key for each task
- `title`: text to name the task
- `description`: text to describe the task
- `completed_at`: a datetime that has the date that a task is completed on. **Can be _nullable_,** and contain a null value. A task with a `null` value for `completed_at` has not been completed.

### Tips

- SQLAlchemy's column type for text is `db.String`. The column type for datetime is `db.DateTime`.
- SQLAlchemy supports _nullable_ columns with specific syntax.
- Don't forget to run:
  - `flask db init` once during setup
  - `flask db migrate` every time there's a change in models, in order to generate migrations
  - `flask db upgrade` to run all generated migrations
- We can assume that the value of each task's `completed_at` attribute will be `None`, until wave 3. (Read below for examples)
- We can assume that the API will designate `is_complete` as `false`, until wave 3. (Read below for examples)

## CRUD for Tasks

The following are required routes for wave 1. Feel free to implement the routes in any order within this wave.

### Tips

- Pay attention to the exact shape of the expected JSON. Double-check nested data structures and the names of the keys for any mispellings.
  - That said, remember that dictionaries do not have an implied order. This is still true in JSON with objects. When you make Postman requests, the order of the key/value pairings within the response JSON object does not need to match the order specified in this document. (The term "object" in JSON is analagous to "dictionary" in Python.)
- Use the tests in `tests/test_wave_01.py` to guide your implementation.
- You may feel that there are missing tests and missing edge cases considered in this wave. This is intentional.
  - You have fulfilled wave 1 requirements if all of the wave 1 tests pass.
  - You are free to add additional features, as long as the wave 1 tests still pass. However, we recommend that you consider the future waves, first.
- Some tests use a fixture named `one_task` that is defined in `tests/conftest.py`. This fixture saves a specific task to the test database.

### Create a Task: Valid Task With `null` `completed_at`

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/tasks` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "title": "A Brand New Task",
  "description": "Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`201 CREATED`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "A Brand New Task",
    "description": "Test Description",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

so that I know I successfully created a Task that is saved in the database.

### Get Tasks: Getting Saved Tasks

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Task Title 1",
    "description": "Example Task Description 1",
    "is_complete": false
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "title": "Example Task Title 2",
    "description": "Example Task Description 2",
    "is_complete": false
  }
]
```

### Get Tasks: No Saved Tasks

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks` when there are zero saved tasks and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[]
```

### Get One Task: One Saved Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Task Title 1",
    "description": "Example Task Description 1",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

### Get One Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Update Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Task Title",
  "description": "Updated Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "task": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Updated Task Title",
    "description": "Updated Test Description",
    "is_complete": false
  }
}
```

### Update Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Task Title",
  "description": "Updated Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body

### Delete Task: Deleting a Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/tasks/1` when there is at least one saved task and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "details": "Task 1 \"Go on my daily walk 🏞\" successfully deleted"
}
```

### Delete Task: No Matching Task

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/tasks/1` when there are no matching tasks and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Create a Task: Invalid Task With Missing Data

#### Missing `title`

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/tasks` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "description": "Test Description",
  "completed_at": null
}
```

and get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

so that I know I did not create a Task that is saved in the database.

#### Missing `description`

If the HTTP request is missing `description`, we should also get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

#### Missing `completed_at`

If the HTTP request is missing `completed_at`, we should also get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```
