ada-project-docs/wave_05.md, before:

# Wave 5: Creating a Second Model

## Goal

Our task list API should be able to work with an entity called `Goal`.

Goals are entities that describe a task a user wants to complete.

They contain a title to name the goal.

Our goal for this wave is to be able to create, read, update, and delete different goals.

## Writing Tests

This wave requires you to complete **four** tests. 
- The tests you need to write are scaffolded in the `test_wave_05.py` file. 
  - These tests are currently skipped with `@pytest.mark.skip(reason="test to be completed by student")` and the function body has `pass` in it. Once you implement these tests you should remove the `skip` decorator and the `pass`.
- For the tests you write, use the requirements in this document to guide your test writing. 
  - Pay attention to the exact shape of the expected JSON. Double-check nested data structures and the names of the keys for any mispellings.
- You can model your tests off of the Wave 01 tests for Tasks.
- Some tests use a [fixture](https://docs.pytest.org/en/6.2.x/fixture.html) named `one_goal` that is defined in `tests/conftest.py`. This fixture saves a specific goal to the test database.

# Requirements

## Goal Model

There should be a `Goal` model that lives in `app/models/goal.py`.

Goals should contain these attributes. Feel free to change the name of the `goal_id` column if you would like. **The tests require the title column to be named exactly** as `title`.

- `goal_id`: a primary key for each goal
- `title`: text to name the goal

### Tips

- Don't forget to run:
  - `flask db migrate` every time there's a change in models, in order to generate migrations
  - `flask db upgrade` to run all generated migrations

## CRUD for Goals

The following are required routes for wave 5. Feel free to implement the routes in any order within this wave.

### Create a Goal: Valid Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/goals` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "title": "My New Goal"
}
```

and get this response:

`201 CREATED`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "My New Goal"
  }
}
```

so that I know I successfully created a goal that is saved in the database.

### Get Goals: Getting Saved Goals

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Goal Title 1"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "title": "Example Goal Title 2"
  }
]
```

### Get Goals: No Saved Goals

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals` when there are zero saved goals and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[]
```

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Get One Goal: One Saved Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Build a habit of going outside daily"
  }
}
```

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Get One Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Update Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title"
}
```

and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Updated Goal Title"
  }
}
```

### Update Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title"
}
```

and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body

### Delete Goal: Deleting a Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "details": "Goal 1 \"Build a habit of going outside daily\" successfully deleted"
}
```

### Delete Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Create a Goal: Invalid Goal With Missing Title

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/goals` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{}
```

and get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

so that I know I did not create a Goal that is saved in the database.

Commit message:

Add line highlighting RESTful routes

ada-project-docs/wave_05.md, after:

# Wave 5: Creating a Second Model

## Goal

Our task list API should be able to work with an entity called `Goal`.

Goals are entities that describe a task a user wants to complete.

They contain a title to name the goal.

Our goal for this wave is to be able to create, read, update, and delete different goals. We will create RESTful routes for these different operations.

## Writing Tests

This wave requires you to complete **four** tests. 
- The tests you need to write are scaffolded in the `test_wave_05.py` file. 
  - These tests are currently skipped with `@pytest.mark.skip(reason="test to be completed by student")` and the function body has `pass` in it. Once you implement these tests you should remove the `skip` decorator and the `pass`.
- For the tests you write, use the requirements in this document to guide your test writing. 
  - Pay attention to the exact shape of the expected JSON. Double-check nested data structures and the names of the keys for any mispellings.
- You can model your tests off of the Wave 01 tests for Tasks.
- Some tests use a [fixture](https://docs.pytest.org/en/6.2.x/fixture.html) named `one_goal` that is defined in `tests/conftest.py`. This fixture saves a specific goal to the test database.

# Requirements

## Goal Model

There should be a `Goal` model that lives in `app/models/goal.py`.

Goals should contain these attributes. Feel free to change the name of the `goal_id` column if you would like. **The tests require the title column to be named exactly** as `title`.

- `goal_id`: a primary key for each goal
- `title`: text to name the goal

### Tips

- Don't forget to run:
  - `flask db migrate` every time there's a change in models, in order to generate migrations
  - `flask db upgrade` to run all generated migrations

## CRUD for Goals

The following are required routes for wave 5. Feel free to implement the routes in any order within this wave.

### Create a Goal: Valid Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/goals` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{
  "title": "My New Goal"
}
```

and get this response:

`201 CREATED`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "My New Goal"
  }
}
```

so that I know I successfully created a goal that is saved in the database.

### Get Goals: Getting Saved Goals

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Example Goal Title 1"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "title": "Example Goal Title 2"
  }
]
```

### Get Goals: No Saved Goals

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals` when there are zero saved goals and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
[]
```

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Get One Goal: One Saved Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Build a habit of going outside daily"
  }
}
```

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Get One Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `GET` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

*This feature requires you to write a test.*

### Update Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title"
}
```

and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "goal": {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Updated Goal Title"
  }
}
```

### Update Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `PUT` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals with this request body:

```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title"
}
```

and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body

### Delete Goal: Deleting a Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/goals/1` when there is at least one saved goal and get this response:

`200 OK`

```json
{
  "details": "Goal 1 \"Build a habit of going outside daily\" successfully deleted"
}
```

### Delete Goal: No Matching Goal

As a client, I want to be able to make a `DELETE` request to `/goals/1` when there are no matching goals and get this response:

`404 Not Found`

No response body.

### Create a Goal: Invalid Goal With Missing Title

As a client, I want to be able to make a `POST` request to `/goals` with the following HTTP request body

```json
{}
```

and get this response:

`400 Bad Request`

```json
{
  "details": "Invalid data"
}
```

so that I know I did not create a Goal that is saved in the database.
